---
layout: leetcode-entry
title: Word Subsets
date: 2025-01-10
image: /assets/img/leetcode/2025-01-10.png
category: leetcode
---
## Description


You are given two string arrays `words1` and `words2`.

A string `b` is a subset of string `a` if every letter in `b` occurs in `a` including multiplicity.

For example, `"wrr"` is a subset of `"warrior"` but is not a subset of `"world"`.
A string `a` from `words1` is universal if for every string `b` in `words2`, `b` is a subset of `a`.

Return an array of all the universal strings in `words1`. You may return the answer in any order.

---

## Approach

- We want to return the array of universal strings
- First, we can store in a Counter (basically a python dict/hashmap under the hood) of the frequency of our `words2` letters. This will let us compare with our target words in O(1) time.
- Secondly, we repeat the process for our target word, storing its frequencies in a hash map. If the frequencies are less than that of our letter in our `words2` then we know it is not a universal string and we can break out and move to the next word.

---

## Complexity Analysis

- **Time Complexity**: O(n * k + m * l), where `n` is the length of the words2, k is the number of letters in each word, m is the length of words1 array and l is the number of letters in each word.
- **Space Complexity**: O(26) + O(m)
  - Our counters store O(26) letters' frequencies. And our results array stores at most m universal strings.

---

## Notes

This one took a while and had a lot of syntax errors along the way. I also think there are more optimizations I could figure out but I ran out of time.





