---
layout: leetcode-entry
title: Check if a Parentheses String Can Be Valid
date: 2025-01-12
image: /assets/img/leetcode/2025-01-12.png
category: leetcode
---
## Description


A parentheses string is a non-empty string consisting only of '(' and ')'. It is valid if any of the following conditions is true:

It is ().
It can be written as AB (A concatenated with B), where A and B are valid parentheses strings.
It can be written as (A), where A is a valid parentheses string.
You are given a parentheses string s and a string locked, both of length n. locked is a binary string consisting only of '0's and '1's. For each index i of locked,

If `locked[i]` is '1', you cannot change `s[i]`.
But if `locked[i]` is '0', you can change `s[i]` to either '(' or ')'.
Return true if you can make s a valid parentheses string. Otherwise, return false.

---

## Approach

- First, if there are an uneven number of brackets, then it is impossible to have the corresponding open/close bracket. So we return false
- Next, we can use stacks to map the indices of the open/close brackets to each other. So we iterate through our string and append to the stack. If we encounter a closed bracket, there must either be an unlocked bracket or a locked open bracket preceding it. If not, we can return False.
- Lastly, we traverse any remaining open and unlocked brackets to make sure we can close the locked open brackets. If the locked open bracket comes after the unlocked bracket, then we know we cannot close it and we can return false. 

---

## Complexity Analysis

- **Time Complexity**: O(n), where `n` is the length s. Takes O(n) time to traverse the string and then O(n) time to traverse the remaining stacks. Hence, O(n) + O(n) = O(n)
- **Space Complexity**: O(n), where `n` is the length s because we store the values of s into the stacks.

---

## Notes

This one was tough for me and I needed a hint to use stacks to map the brackets to each other





