---
layout: leetcode-entry
title: Minimum Length of String After Operations
date: 2025-01-13
image: /assets/img/leetcode/2025-01-13.png
category: leetcode
---
## Description


You are given a string `s`.

You can perform the following process on `s` any number of times:

Choose an index `i` in the string such that there is at least one character to the left of index i that is equal to `s[i]`, and at least one character to the right that is also equal to `s[i]`.
Delete the closest character to the left of index `i` that is equal to `s[i]`.
Delete the closest character to the right of index `i` that is equal to `s[i]`.
Return the minimum length of the final string `s` that you can achieve.

---

## Approach

- First, we create a hash map to track the frequency of each letter.
- Second, we traverse the string s and add the letter to the hash map. If there are already two occurences of that letter then we can "delete" two occurences and add that value to our num_deletions. 
- Lastly, we can take the length of the string - the number of deletions to get the length of the resulting string. 

---

## Complexity Analysis

- **Time Complexity**: O(n), where `n` is the length s. Takes O(n) time to traverse the string and add the occurences to the hash map.
- **Space Complexity**: O(n), where `n` is the length s because we store the values of s into the hash map.

---

## Notes

I origianlly misread the question and buiilt a solution that returns the resulting string. The way to speed this algorithm up is to a full count of the frequency of the letters (can use pythons counter library) and then sum over all the letters frequencies and then do the total - (num_letters * 2), as there should only be a max of two occurences left of each letter.





